Discussion Questions

Recursion

1. In your own words, what is Recursion?
Recursion is recursion. JK, LOL.
Rather than writng a loop, Recursion is a function that calls itself until a base case is acheived.

2. Why is it necessary to have a Base Case?
A base case is necessary to make the recursive function stop calling itself.

Graphs

1. What is a Graph?
A graph is a data structure of nodes based on relationships.

2. How is a Graph different from a Tree?
Relationships of nodes in a graph can be directed or non-directed, whereas a tree
has directed relationships of hierarchy. All nodes are somehow connected in a tree,
but a graph can have nodes that are not connected.

3. Give an example of somthing that would be good to model with a Graph.
A graph is would be an excellent model for a social network.

Performance of Different Data Structures

Fill in the missing spots in the chart with the correct runtimes. Do this by reasoning through how the data structures work, NOT by looking up the solution. Add-R means add to the right/end/top and Add-L means add to the left/beginning. There are Xs in the spots where that operation doesn’t make sense for that data structure (for instance, you can’t index a Stack, or pop from the end of a Queue). We’ve provided the first few answers for you.

Fill in the runtimes for the following actions for the table below:

Data Structure              Index   Search  Add-R   Add-L   Pop-L   Pop-R
Python List (Array)         O(1)    O(n)    O(1)     O(n)    O(n)    O(1)        
Linked List                 O(n)    O(n)    O(1)     O(1)    O(1)    O(n)
Doubly-Linked List          O(n)    O(n)    O(1)     O(1)    O(1)    O(1)
Queue (as Array)            X        X      O(1)      X      O(n)     X
Queue (as LL or DLL)        X        X      O(1)      X      O(1)     X
Stack (as Array, LL, or DLL)X        X      O(1)      X       X      O(1)
Deque (as DLL)              X        X      O(1)     O(1)    O(1)    O(1)          


Index: Find an item in the structure when you know its position
Search: Find an item in the structure when you know its data
Add(R/L): Set a key in set/dictionary or add node to tree
Pop(R/L): Remove a key or node

Fill in Runtime and Memory:
The answers for Dictionary have been provided; you should fill in the rest:

Data Structure          Get     Add     Delete  Iterate Memory
Dictionary (Hash Map)   O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(n)    medium
Set (Hash Map)          O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(n)    medium     
Binary Search Tree      O(logn) O(n)    O(n)    O(1)    small 
Tree                    O(n)    O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    small

Get: Find an item in the structure
Add: Set a key in set/dictionary or add node to tree
Delete: Remove a key or node
Iterate: Find next item in data structure
Memory: Relative to data, how much memory is used? (Choices: a little, medium, or a lot)


Sorting

1. Describe in words how the Bubble Sort algorithm works.
This technique takes two items from the list at a time, starting with the first two.
It moves the larger of the two numbers to the right, and then examines that bigger number 
and the number that now comes after it. After the first pass through the list, the biggest number
will be all the way at the end. After the second pass through the list, the second biggest number 
will be on the right. 

2. Describe in words how the Merge Sort algorithm works.
An empty list is initialized to store results. The merge sort algorithm works by merging two 
already sorted lists, or if there not two already sorted lists, making each item into the list
the only item in its own list.
The algorithm compares the first item in the lists, pops and appends the lowest one to the 
results list. The resulting list is ordered.

3. Describe in words how the Quick Sort algorithm works.
Quick sorting works by sorting in place around a pivot. All items lower than the pivot are 
sorted to be before it, and all the numbers greater than the pivot are sorted to be beyond it.


Git Branching

1. Give an instance when you would use git branching.
Git branching is useful when more than one person is working on a code set, 
or you want to keep separate versions of code, like when a feature is being developed 
but not yet deployed.

2. What is a pull request?
A pull request is a feature in Github wherein you ask the project owner to examine the code 
that you've written in your branch and request that they merge it into their branch. 
It's a way to contribute code to a project. 

